---
title: 'Article in J. Am. Soc. Mass Spectrom'
date: 2023-06-14
permalink: /posts/2023-06/p1
short: "I am happy to share my new published work. It's about mass spectrometry and humic"
tags:
---

I am happy to share my latest published work, which has turned out to be not typical but holds very significance for me, and I hope for others too. In this work, I didn't conduct any experiments in the laboratory. Instead, I relied solely on my laptop. My intention to develop programming skills originated from a hobby I pursued six years ago, where I created an electronic marking system for sport orienting [Sportiduino](https://github.com/sportiduino/sportiduino). A community emerged around the project and continues to thrive and evolve, yet without me. Subsequently, I began applying my skills directly to my laboratory work, focusing on data processing and visualization. In my previous lab, strong projects emphasized mass spectrometry of complex objects - humic substances. Scripts and a Python library prototype for spectral analysis were created to solve these tasks. A year ago, I completed refining and publishing this project, resulting in a highly engaging and rewarding experience. I wrote numerous lines of code, prepared documentation, implemented automated tests, and developed a graphical interface. While professional programmers may find a lot of areas that require refinement and optimization (which I welcome through issue submissions), I am delighted with the outcome anyway. The project is open, and I am pleased to share it: [Link to paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/jasms.3c00003)